DOCS-882: Document webhooks (#2391)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/build/configure/_index.md

        {
          "type": "data_manager",
          "attributes": {
            "capture_methods": [
              {
                "method": "Readings",
                "additional_params": {},
                "capture_frequency_hz": 0.017
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "webhooks": [
    {
      "url": "https://1abcde2ab3cd4efg5abcdefgh10zyxwv.lambda-url.us-east-1.on.aws",
      "event": {
        "attributes": {
          "data_types": ["binary", "tabular"]
        },
        "type": "part_data_ingested"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

2. Replace the URL value with the URL of your cloud/lambda function.
3. Edit the `data_types` list to include only the types of data you want to trigger on.
4. Configure [data capture](/data/capture/) and [cloud sync](/data/cloud-sync/) for the relevant components.
   For example, if you want to trigger a webhook on temperature readings, configure data capture and sync on your temperature sensor.
   Be aware that the component must return the type of data you configured in `data_types`.
5. Write your cloud/lambda function to process the request from `viam-server`.

>    The following example function sends a Slack message with a machine details when it receives a request:

Reviewer: Nit: I think this was intended:

```suggestion
   The following example function sends a Slack message with a machine's details when it receives a request:
```

or for a bit more explicitness:

```suggestion
   The following example function sends a Slack message with a machine's details, such as robot and location IDs,  when it receives a request:
```

Author: Oops yes you're quite right ty

{{% /expand %}}

## Webhooks

Webhooks allow you to trigger actions when certain types of data are sent from your machine to the cloud.
For example, you can configure a webhook to send you a phone notification when your robot's battery drops below 10%.

There is no webhooks tab in the Viam app config builder; use **Raw JSON** mode to configure webhooks as follows:

1. Paste the following JSON template into your raw JSON config.

>    `"webhooks"` is a top-level section like `"components"`, `"services"`, or any of the other config sections.

Author: ```suggestion
   `"webhooks"` is a top-level section like `"components"`, `"services"`, or any of the other config sections.

```

Reviewer: 👍 I like this clarification!

{{% /expand %}}

## Webhooks

Webhooks allow you to trigger actions when certain types of data are sent from your machine to the cloud.

> For example, you can configure a webhook to send you a phone notification when your robot's battery drops below 10%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, you can configure a webhook to send a phone notification when your robot's battery drops below 10%.
```

Reviewer 2: So I think this specifically, we cannot actually do yet. I think currently we literally only trigger on "data is added" and at that point there is no way for us to check what the data is. What we can do is use the filtering module to ensure data only gets added in certain conditions, like when an ml model detects something.
So how about:

```suggestion
You must configure data management to use Webhooks.
Webhooks will trigger every time data with the type binary, tabular, or file gets synced.
To limit when webhooks triggered for binary data, you can use the [`filtered-camera`](https://github.com/erh/filtered_camera) module. 
For a tutorial on filtering data, see [Selectively capture data using filtered-camera](/tutorials/projects/filtered-camera/).
```

Author: I wish it was possible to programmatically turn on data sync only when data of a certain value is captured.

For now, what should we put here?
```suggestion
For example, you can configure a webhook to send you a notification when your robot's sensor collects a new reading.
```

Reviewer 2: Yeah I think that suggesiton is good @JessamyT . @nataliajacobowitz you happy with that?

Reviewer 3: Happy with the above. We will iterate as new capabilities are supported with webhooks (hopefully soon)

> There is no webhooks tab in the Viam app config builder; use **Raw JSON** mode to configure webhooks as follows:

Reviewer: Hmm, torn here. I might go with:

```suggestion
You can configure webhooks in the Viam app, using **Raw JSON** mode:
```

And then add a step 1 below:

> 1. Navigate to the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com/robots) and switch to **Raw JSON** mode.

But you're right that users could well (are very likely to) be expecting a UI presence in Builder mode, like so many of our other configurables. OK by me to keep "not where you expect it", but instead of "tab", what do you think of:

```suggestion
You can configure webhooks in the Viam app, using **Raw JSON** mode.
Webhooks do not support  **Builder** mode configuration at this time:
```

Up to you, happy either way!

> There is no webhooks tab in the Viam app config builder; use **Raw JSON** mode to configure webhooks as follows:

Reviewer 2: I see what you do here but I think that sounds a bit odd/unfinished when it may sound better to simply not address that maybe there could also be a tab
```suggestion
Switch to **Raw JSON** mode to configure webhooks as follows:
```

   {{< tabs >}}
   {{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
  "webhooks": [
    {
      "url": "<Insert your own cloud function or lambda URL for sending the event>",
      "event": {
        "attributes": {
          "data_types": ["binary", "tabular", "file"]
        },
        "type": "part_data_ingested"
      }
    }
  ]
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Example" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "local",
      "model": "rdk:builtin:pi",
      "type": "board",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {},
      "depends_on": []
    },
    {
      "name": "my_temp_sensor",
      "model": "rdk:builtin:bme280",
      "type": "sensor",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "attributes": {},
      "depends_on": [],
      "service_configs": [
        {
          "type": "data_manager",
          "attributes": {
            "capture_methods": [
              {
                "method": "Readings",
                "additional_params": {},
                "capture_frequency_hz": 0.017
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "webhooks": [
    {

>       "url": "https://examplecloudfuntionURL-besuretochangethis.net/12345",

Reviewer: Nit: let's use an actual lambda url, I think this is the current convention:

```suggestion
      "url": "https://1abcde2ab3cd4efg5abcdefgh10zyxwv.lambda-url.us-east-1.on.aws",
```

      "event": {
        "attributes": {
          "data_types": ["binary", "tabular"]
        },
        "type": "part_data_ingested"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

2. Replace the URL value with the URL of your cloud/lambda function.
3. Edit the `data_types` list to include only the types of data you want to trigger on.
4. Configure [data capture](/data/capture/) and [cloud sync](/data/cloud-sync/) for the relevant components.
   For example, if you want to trigger a webhook on temperature readings, configure data capture and sync on your temperature sensor.
   Be aware that the component must return the type of data you configured in `data_types`.

> 5. Write your lambda function to process the request from `viam-server`.

Reviewer: Nit: if we support more than just lambda, per `cloud/lambda` usage earlier, let's use that here too:

```suggestion
5. Write your cloud/lambda function to process the request from `viam-server`.
```

>    The following example function sends a Slack message with the machine details when it receives a request:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The following example function sends a Slack message with a machine details when it receives a request:
```

   ```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
   import functions_framework
   import requests
   import time

   @functions_framework.http
   def hello_http(request):
     payload = {
       "Org-ID": request.headers['org-id'] if 'org-id' in request.headers else 'no value',
       "Location-ID": request.headers['location-id'] if 'location-id' in request.headers else 'no value',
       "Part-ID": request.headers['part-id'] if 'part-id' in request.headers else 'no value',
       "Robot-ID": request.headers['robot-id'] if 'robot-id' in request.headers else 'no value'
     }

     slack_url = "<paste in your own Slack URL"
     headers = {}

     response = requests.post(slack_url, json=payload, headers=headers)

     request_json = request.get_json(silent=True)
     request_args = request.args

     return 'Sent request to {}'.format(slack_url)

   ```

>    You may find this tutorial from Ordergroove Engineering on [Posting Slack notifications using Google Cloud Function](https://medium.com/ordergroove-engineering/posting-slack-notifications-using-google-cloud-function-900ed2f1e3ec) helpful.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should assume that the this is a likely use case. It's nice to give an example but I think we can leave it at that
```suggestion
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
